
This file explains how to set up "two-way email forwarding", so that
when IMs get forwarded out as email, you can then reply to that email
(from your pager or cell phone or whatever), and have tnt convert the
email back to an IM.

Any questions about setting this up, feel free to mail me at
    NeilFred Picciotto <tnt-procmail-setup@derf.net>


First, for this to work, you'll need to own a your own personal
domain, and have it configured with a wildcard entry, so that
any_user_name@example.com gets delivered to you.

Second, you'll need to be running gnuserv in the same emacs where tnt
is running.  You might need to change the path to gnuclient in
procmail-pipe-message-into-tnt.sh (default is "/usr/bin/gnuclient").

Third, your mail must get processed by procmail.  If you're already
using procmail, you'll want to add an INCLUDERC directive or just
include the provided recipe into your procmailrc.  If you're not
already using procmail, you can probably just create a new procmailrc
file with the provided recipe.  Note that the file with the procmail
recipe (in the same directory with this README, it's called
"email-to-tnt-procmail-recipe") includes three variables which you
MUST configure for this to work.

Finally, you'll need to use "customize" to set a few of tnt's
variables:

tnt-email-to-pipe-to
    The email address of your pager, phone, or whatever you want to
    forward the messages to.

tnt-email-from-domain
    Your personal domain, used to set a unique "From:" address
    according to the user whose IM is being forwarded.  Specifically,
    if this variable is set to "example.com", then an IM from
    "mybuddy" will be forwarded with this header:
        From: mybuddy_IM_@example.com
    This is what allows you to have reply emails go back in the
    appropriate IM conversation.  If you leave it nil, you can still
    forward IMs as email, but the other direction will not work.

Both of the above are required for this to work, and both must also be
set (to the same values) in the procmail recipe.  The following are
optional:

tnt-email-use-subject
    If non-nil, a subject header will be included in the outgoing
    emails, saying "IM from mybuddy".  Depending on the device you're
    sending the email to, you may wish to omit the subject.

tnt-email-include-user-in-body
    If non-nil, the body of the email will start with "mybuddy:",
    which will then be followed by the content of mybuddy's IM.
    Again, depending on the device you're emailing to, you may wish to
    conserve by omitting this, especially if the email address is
    visible.

tnt-email-binary
    Absolute path to the "mail" binary -- override if it's not in the
    default location, namely "/bin/mail"...


Good luck!
