What is TNT?
------------

TNT is an Emacs client for AIM, AOL's free instant messaging service.
Using TNT, you can, from the comfort of your Emacs window, check
whether friends and coworkers are online, send them "instant
messages", and join them in multi-party private chat sessions.
Unlike the official AIM clients, TNT is designed to be functional
rather than pretty, easy to use rather than easy to learn.  It doesn't
have a graphical user interface, fancy artwork, or other random fluff.
Instead, like other emacs extensions, it has a keyboard-driven,
text-based interface.  TNT is AIM for grownups ;-).


Is there support for TNT?
-------------------------

TNT is currently housed at sourceforge.net, and is headed by the
project members there.  Information is available from:

    http://tnt.sourceforge.net/

From there, you can download the latest release.  If you have
questions or comments, your best bet is to ask questions on the
mailing list (the forums are pretty slow):
  tnt-devel@lists.sourceforge.net

If you're interested in helping improve TNT, you should join the
mailing list for developers of TNT.  To subscribe, go to:

    http://lists.sourceforge.net/mailman/listinfo/tnt-devel


What versions of Emacs are supported?
-------------------------------------

TNT was originally developed using GNU Emacs 19.34.  More recent
improvements have been developed on various emacses.  It has been
tested at some point (not necessarily recently) with versions 19.29,
19.30, 20.2, 20.3, and 20.7, and with XEmacs 20.4 and 21.4, and it
seems to work.

Version 18 of GNU Emacs is not supported.

[2006.03.28 gse] Recently, GNU Emacs support has gotten flakier for
reasons we don't understand.  Any debugging help is welcome.

If you run into difficulties, please let us know what emacs you're
running!  And of course, patches are gratefully accepted.


What does TNT stand for?
------------------------

TNT was so named in order to differentiate it from TiK.  What then,
you may ask, is TiK?  TiK is another unoffical AIM client, but it's
written in Tcl.  Both TNT and TiK use a simplified protocol called TOC
to communicate with the AIM host.  (Actually, they communicate with a
TOC server which, in turn, communicates with the AIM host).  Details
of the TOC protocol are given in the file PROTOCOL, which is included
in this directory.  Info on TiK can be found at

    http://tik.sourceforge.net/


How do I get an account?
------------------------

Before you can use TNT, you need to have an AIM account.  The account
is free, and registering for it is only slightly painful :-).  Just go
to the AIM home page, http://www.aol.com/aim, and click on one of
"sign up" buttons there.  This will take you to a registration page
where you can enter your desired username (or "screen name" in
AOL-speak) and password.  You also need to enter your e-mail address
in order to receive the confirmation e-mail that will allow you to
permanently activate your account.

The hardest part about registering is choosing a screen name.  There
are currently more than 30 million screen names in use, so don't
expect the first one you try to work.  Many people give up, believing
that the registration page is busted, after trying only their first
and/or last names.  D'oh!  Unless you have an unusual name, this isn't
going to work.  You need to be creative.  Try adding a number after
your name.


How do I use TNT?
-----------------

The table below summarizes TNT's primary commands.  They can be
invoked interactively using either M-x or the key bindings shown.  A
detailed description of each command follows the table.

+-------------------+-------------+-------------------------------------------+
|  Function         | Key Binding |               Summary                     |
+-------------------+-------------+-------------------------------------------+
| tnt-show-help     |   C-x t ?   | Displays this help information            |
| tnt-open          |   C-x t o   | Starts a new TNT session                  |
| tnt-kill          |   C-x t q   | Terminates the current session            |
| tnt-im            |   C-x t i   | Starts an instant-message conversation    |
| tnt-join-chat     |   C-x t j   | Joins a chat room                         |
| tnt-leave-chat    |   C-x t l   | Leaves a chat room                        |
| tnt-show-buddies  |   C-x t b   | Shows the buddy list                      |
| tnt-edit-buddies  |   C-x t B   | Invokes the buddy list editor             |
| tnt-accept        |   C-x t a   | Accepts a message or a chat invitation    |
| tnt-reject        |   C-x t r   | Rejects a message or a chat invitation    |
| tnt-next-event    |   C-x t n   | Shows next event in notification ring     |
| tnt-prev-event    |   C-x t p   | Shows previous event in notification ring |
| tnt-switch-user   |   C-x t s   | Switches between usernames for next login |
| tnt-toggle-away   |   C-x t A   | Toggles away status, sets away message    |
| tnt-toggle-pounce |   C-x t P   | Adds or deletes a pounce message          |
| tnt-pounce-list   |   C-x t L   | Shows the pounce list                     |
| tnt-toggle-email  |   C-x t M   | Toggles forwarding incoming IMs to email  |
| tnt-toggle-mute   |   C-x t m   | Toggles sounds on/off                     |
+-------------------+-------------+-------------------------------------------+

tnt-show-help (C-x t ?)

  Opens a buffer with the above help information.


tnt-open (C-x t o)

  This command signs onto the AIM service.  You need to supply your
  screen name and password in response to the prompts in the
  minibuffer.  If all goes well, you will get a "Signed on" message in
  the echo area, and an online indicator consisting of your screen
  name enclosed in brackets will appear in the mode line.  If
  something goes wrong, you'll probably just get a message like "TNT
  connection lost" in the echo area.

  If you don't want to enter your screen name and password every time,
  you can set the variables tnt-default-username and
  tnt-default-password in your init (.emacs) file (see below).  If
  both of these variables are set, tnt-open will sign on immediately
  without prompting; if only the username is set, you will be prompted
  only for a password.  If other people have read permission for your
  .emacs file, you should not put your password in it.

  If you have multiple screen names, you can set them all (with or
  without associated passwords) in the tnt-username-alist variable
  (see below).


tnt-kill (C-x t q)

  This command signs off of the AIM service (or "kills" the TNT
  session).  You'll get a "Signed off" message in the echo area, and
  the mode line will no longer show the online indicator.


tnt-im (C-x t i)

  This command initiates an "instant message" conversation with
  another user.  You will be prompted for the user's screen name.  If
  the user is on your buddy list, you can use the Emacs "completion"
  feature to assist you.  Hitting the tab key after typing one or more
  characters will cause Emacs to fill in as much of the rest of the
  name as it can.

  After you enter the screen name, the selected window will switch to
  a buffer in which the conversation will take place.  To send a
  message to the other user, simply type the message at the end of
  buffer.  The message will auto-wrap as you type and will be sent
  when you hit RETURN (or ENTER).  You can tell that the message has
  been sent because it will be prefixed with your screen name.

  When the person with whom you're conversing responds, his message,
  prefixed by his screen name, will be inserted in the buffer
  immediately after your sent message.  If you had already started
  typing a new message when the response arrives, the response will be
  inserted before the new message so as not to disrupt your typing.

  When you are through with the conversation, you can simply kill or
  hide the buffer.  You can carry on multiple conversations at once.
  Each conversation goes into its own buffer.  The buffers have names
  of the form *im-name*, where "name" is the normalized screen name of
  the user you're conversing with.  (Normalized simply means that the
  screen name has had all spaces have been removed and capitals
  changed to lowercase.)

  If the conversation buffer for a particular user isn't visible at
  the time a message from that user arrives, you'll get a notification
  in the echo area informing you that a new message is available.  You
  can use the tnt-accept or tnt-reject commands (described below) to
  either view or discard the message.


tnt-join-chat (C-x t j)

  This command joins a chat room in which you can converse with
  several users at once.  You will be prompted for the name of the
  room.  The default is a randomly-generated name of an empty chat
  room.  In most cases you will just want to use this name and invite
  other users into the room once you've joined.  However, if you know
  the name of an existing room, you may enter that instead.

  Once inside a chat room, you can invite other users to join.  You do
  this by typing an invitation message (describing the topic being
  discussed in the room) and terminating it with TAB (or C-i).  You
  will be prompted for a list of users to invite.  Enter their screen
  names, or the name of a group from your buddy list, separated by
  commas.  Each invited user will recieve a copy of the invitation
  message and will be given an opportunity to join the room.  You will
  be informed as they join by status messages that appear in the
  room's buffer.

  To send a message to all users in a room, simply type the message
  and hit RETURN.  To send a private message to a particular user,
  terminate the message with LINEFEED (or C-j) instead of RETURN (or
  C-m) -- you will then be prompted for the screen name of the desired
  recipient.  Alternately, you can of course also start a separate
  private conversation (in its own IM buffer) with the person.


tnt-leave-chat (C-x t l)

  This command leaves a chat room you are currently in.  If the
  current buffer is a chat room, it will leave that one, otherwise it
  will prompt for the name of the chat room to leave.  (Note that you
  can also leave a chat room by simply killing its buffer.)


tnt-accept (C-x t a)

  This command accepts a new message or chat invitation from another
  user.  Use it when you recieve a notification in the echo area.  It
  will switch the selected window to either the conversation buffer or
  the chat buffer, as appropriate, and remove the notification.  If
  there was more than one pending notification, the next one will pop
  up in its place.  When you've dealt with all of them, the echo area
  will return to its normal (blank) state.

  If you use TNT often, it's nice to bind this command to a shorter
  keysequence.  For instance:
   (global-set-key '[f12] 'tnt-accept)


tnt-reject (C-x t r)

  This command rejects a new message or chat invitation from another
  user.  Like tnt-accept, it is used when a notification appears in
  the echo area.  Rather than switch to the conversation or chat
  buffer, though, it kills it.


tnt-next-event (C-x t n)
tnt-prev-event (C-x t p)

  Message and chat notifications are kept in a ring.  These commands
  allow you to step through the ring and view pending notifications
  without having to accept or reject them.  When you get to a
  notification that you want to act on, you can use tnt-accept or
  tnt-reject at that point.


tnt-show-buddies (C-x t b)

  This command switches the selected window to the *buddies* buffer.
  This buffer is constantly updated while you are online to show the
  status of your "buddies".  Buddies are other users of either the AIM
  service or the primary AOL service.  You designate which users are
  your buddies by creating a "buddy list" using the tnt-edit-buddies
  command described below.  If you do not have a buddy list, a default
  buddy list consisting of only you is used.

  While viewing the buddy list, you can use the "n" and "p" keys to
  move the cursor to the next or previous buddy name.  With the cursor
  positioned on a buddy name, you can use the "i" or RETURN key to
  initiate an conversation with that buddy.  And if emacs is running
  within X, you should be able to initiate an IM by clicking the
  second mouse button on a buddy's screen name.


tnt-edit-buddies (C-x t B)

  This command allows you to edit your buddy list.  It switches the
  selected window to the *edit-buddies* buffer, which shows your
  entire buddy list (both online and offline users), and allows you to
  edit the list.  In the current release of TNT, the buddy-list editor
  is rather rudimentary.  You just edit the buffer in text mode and
  use the tnt-save-buddy-list command (C-x C-s, just like saving a
  normal text file buffer) to save your changes.  Because the buddy
  list is stored on the host, you must be online in order to edit it.

  The buddy list is organized as a two-level hierarchy.  At the top
  level are group names (e.g. "Friends", "Coworkers", etc.), and at
  the second level are the screen names of the users in each group.
  In the buddy editor, the buddy list is formatted so that the group
  names begin at the left margin.  Following each group name is a list
  of screen names of users in that group, one screen name per line.
  In order to distinguish them from group names, the screen names are
  indented.  When editing the buddy list, you must be careful to
  maintain this format -- indent buddies' screen names, don't indent
  buddy group names.


tnt-switch-user (C-x t s)

  If you have multiple usernames, you can set the tnt-username-alist
  variable (see below) to simplify logging in.  Once the variable is
  set, running this command will cycle through available usernames for
  the next login.


tnt-away-toggle (C-x t A)

  This command allows you to change your "away" mode.  When you are
  set as away, your away message will be sent to anyone who IMs you.
  When your away message is sent, a reminder notification is displayed
  in the minibuffer, and the away message is shown as a sent IM.  The
  message will not be sent to a buddy if that person was the last
  person to receive your away message.  Thus, two people talking to
  you at once will make it bounce back and forth rather annoyingly.
  (This behavior is identical to the away meesages in most AIM
  clients.)


tnt-toggle-pounce (C-x t P)

  When you invoke this command you will be prompted for a buddy's
  screen name.  If the buddy has no pounce message set TNT will prompt
  for a pounce message.  When they log in or change their away status,
  they will immediately be sent this message.  If they have a message
  set, the current message will be deleted.

tnt-pounce-list (C-x t L)
  
  This command will list all pending pounce messages in a new buffer.

tnt-toggle-email (C-x t M)

  TNT can act as an IM-to-email gateway -- this is useful if, for
  example, you have an alphanumeric pager which can be reached via an
  email address.  You'll be able to receive IMs on the go!  To set
  this up, you'll need to set the tnt-email-to-pipe-to and
  tnt-email-binary variables (see below).  Once those variable are
  properly set, running this command will turn forwarding on and off.


tnt-mute (C-x t m)

  Toggles sounds on and off.  Useful especially if you use soundfiles
  as opposed to beeps (see below) and they start to get annoying.


How can I simplify logging in?
------------------------------

Any of the following options can also be included in your .emacs file,
immediately _after_ the "(setq load-path ...)" and "(load "tnt")"
lines.

In order to not have to type your username (and optionally your
password), you can use these variables:
    
    (setq tnt-default-username "MyUserName")
    (setq tnt-default-password "MyPassword")

If you have more than one username that you sometimes log in as, you
can switch between them using "C-x t s" between logins, but you should
use this variable instead of the above:
    
    (setq tnt-username-alist '(("DefaultUserName" . "Password1")
                               ("AltUserName1" . "Password2")
                               ("AltUserName2")))

IMPORTANT SECURITY NOTE:
If you are including your password in your .emacs file, you probably
want to be sure that your .emacs file is only readable by you.  If
someone gains access to that file, they will be able to log into AIM
as you.  If the tnt-default-password is not set, or if the password is
left out for the current username in the tnt-username-alist, tnt will
prompt you for your password each time you log in.



How can I customize beeping and other sounds?
---------------------------------------------

There are several different events which can have beeps/sounds
associated.  Each "tnt-beep-on-..." variable can be set to any of the
following:

    nil        no beep
    'audible   audible beep
    'visible   visible beep
    'current   whatever emacs is currently set to (audible or visible)
    "/full/path/to/some/sound.wav"
               play a sound file; under XEmacs and GNU Emacs 22,
               built-in sound support is used.  With older versions
               GNU Emacs, you must define the tnt-sound-exec variable.

These are the variables, with their defaults:

    (setq tnt-beep-on-incoming-message 'current)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-first-incoming-message nil)    ;; see below
    (setq tnt-beep-on-visible-incoming-message nil)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-outgoing-message nil)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-chat-invitation 'current)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-chat-message 'current)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-visible-chat-message nil)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-buddy-signon nil)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-buddy-signoff nil)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-signon nil)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-signoff nil)
    (setq tnt-beep-on-error 'current)
    
Note that tnt-beep-on-first-incoming-message is slightly different
from the others in that if it is set to nil, it will use the value of
tnt-beep-on-incoming-message, so it only does nothing if that one is
*also* set to nil.

Under XEmacs, playing sound files should just work, but to use sound
files under GNU Emacs, you'll need to set these variables:

    (setq tnt-sound-exec "/path/to/executable")
    (setq tnt-sound-exec-args '("any args" "to pass" "before the filename"))



What else can I customize about TNT?
------------------------------------

NOTE: The examples below use 'setq' but really you can customize most
everything about TNT using "M-x customize-group tnt".
    
The following variables determine whether a message appears in the
minibuffer to notify of particular happenings.  Note that these are
independent from the above sound/beep settings.

    (setq tnt-message-on-buddy-signonoff nil)
    (setq tnt-message-on-chatroom-message t)

Following are a few miscellaneous other variables that can be set:
    
    (setq tnt-use-timestamps t)
    (setq tnt-use-split-buddy t)
    (setq tnt-use-keepalive nil)
    (setq tnt-use-buddy-update-timer nil)
    (setq tnt-use-idle-timer nil)
    
    (setq tnt-separator "\n---\n")
    (setq tnt-recenter-windows nil)

    (setq tnt-directory "/some/tnt/directory")
    (setq tnt-buddy-list-backup-filename nil)
    
    (setq tnt-email-to-pipe-to "someone@example.com")
    (setq tnt-email-binary "/some/other/bin/mail")


NOTE: More information about all of the above variables is available
using emacs' built-in "apropos" function -- hit "M-x apropos", then
type the variable name (e.g. "tnt-default-username").  It will give
you the possible values the variable can be set to, what those do, and
what the default is.


Also these two lines can optionally be included in your .emacs file:

    (set-face-foreground 'tnt-my-name-face "ColorName1")
    (set-face-foreground 'tnt-other-name-face "ColorName2")

These set the colors used for the usernames of yourself and the person
you're talking to.  Only works if emacs is running in X (in other
words, not, for example, in a telnet session.)  You can experiment
with different colors by simply putting the cursor at the end of one
of the above two lines and hitting "C-x C-e".  This will save you
having to exit and relaunch emacs millions of times to get just the
right color scheme.

Colors can also be set using 'custom'.

